4 important concepts in springboot

Inversion of Control (IoC): IoC is like giving the keys of your car to someone else and letting them drive. In Spring,
IoC means giving control of object creation and management to the framework, so you can focus on writing business logic.

Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP): AOP helps you tackle common tasks that cut across different parts of your application,
like logging or security. By separating these concerns, your code becomes more organized and easier to maintain.

Spring MVC: Spring MVC is like having a personal assistant for handling web requests. It takes care of mapping URLs 
to controllers and generating web pages, so you can focus on building your application’s functionality.

Spring Data: Spring Data is like having a magic wand for working with databases. It provides a unified interface for
interacting with different types of databases, saving you time and effort.



1) @SpringApplication

contains 3 annotations

1.@Autoconfiguration: this tells the spring to create the beans instead of user creating manually which are added in dependencies
2.@ComponentScan is an annotation that tells Spring where to look for annotated components, such as @Component, @Service, @Repository, and @Controller. 
When Spring's application context starts up, it will automatically discover and register these components as beans.
3.@onfiguration: Marks the class as a configuration class, a source of bean definitions.


2)What does @RestController mean?**

It is equal to:

@Controller + @ResponseBody
Meaning:

Every method returns data (JSON) directly, not a webpage.


3)Dependecy Injection : mean spring injects objects , instead of develper creating them

4)🔹 1. Spring Container (IoC Container)

Spring Boot manages objects for you.

Instead of:

UserService service = new UserService();

You write:

@Service
public class UserService { }

Spring Boot creates and manages this object automatically.

This is called:
👉 Inversion of Control (IoC)


5)What is Dependency Injection? Explain constructor vs field vs setter injection. Which is best and why?

we have class A with some method x
we have class B we want x method from A

we inject A in class B if we use autowire to that , if we call class A method from class B we are able to call, but if A object is not present it will
throw no bean exception

we can avoid this using constructor injection, also we can avoid reflection in test classes , mocking reduces 


6) bean life cycle

bean intiated
dependency injection
preconstruct
ready to use
postconstruct

7 ) How do you handle exceptions globally in Spring Boot?


@ControllerAdvice add this annotation on top of class
@ExceptionHandler(type of exception class) add this annotation on top of method


8) jpa,hibernate,spring jpa

JPA	Choreographer / Dance Blueprint	Tells everyone the rules of the dance (how to map Java objects to DB tables). It doesn’t dance itself.
Hibernate	Professional dancer	Follows the choreography and actually performs the dance (runs SQL, maps objects to tables, handles transactions).
Spring Data JPA	Dance coach / choreographer’s assistant	Makes the dance easier to perform: gives dancers ready-made steps, so you don’t have to teach every move manually (like automatic CRUD, repository methods, pagination).


9) what happens when springbootApplication.run()

- spring creates application context which is a container which can be used to store the beans
- scan of bean
- create and register of the beans
- beans are injected via dependency injection
- autoconfiguraton handles the setup of dependency like tomcat,jackson,spring mvc etc
- Spring Boot starts an embedded server like Tomcat. app is ready to listen to requests.
- Application Ready to Serve Requests

10) Type of beans
- single : throught the request only one bean is shared
- prototype : for every request new bean is created
- session : for every session new bean is created

11) what happens when request comes from client to backend 

Client
  |
  v
Tomcat (Embedded Server)
  |
  v
DispatcherServlet
  |
  v
HandlerMapping → finds Controller
  |
  v
Controller → Service → Repository
  |
  v
MessageConverter (Java → JSON)
  |
  v
DispatcherServlet
  |
  v
Client (Response)


12) The one extra thing that @Repository has (which @Component or @Service does NOT) is:

repository has extra feature know as Exception Translation means when something fails in db like key is missing, data missing, sql expection 
these low level expection are combined under one common exception so it is easy to handle, so instead of having multiple catch blocks for each 
db-level exception we can have common expection



